So I installed the new Windows Fall Creator update. I have no idea what the supposed benefits are.
So far what I've observed:
-Install was slow even by Windows Update standards. Over an hour!
-Now my computer gets a sweet plaid pattern when it come back up from standby.
-Other goodies include 30-45 (!) more seconds to go from cold boot -> logged in and responsive
-When I checked my app bar I see this:
WTF
nearly a GB of shit installed on my machine that I didn't ask for... How is this different than going 
ahead and installing a custom browser toolbar full of spyware ala sourceforge.
-Super scummy
-MSFT makes billions. Isn't that enough? This has the feel of a millionaire standing in line arguing with a 
cashier for 5 minutes about a 25 cents off coupon that won't go through. Some people might say, well that's how
you get rich, watching every penny. No, failure to prioritize your valuable time (and imposing on others waiting behind you in line) isn't 
how anyone ever got rich. 
-I'm actually embarrassed for them. This is just so bush league. It's the kind of behavior you expect out of a freemium
cellphone app company. Oh, 5 different banner ads and a couple of nagging messages about microtransactions before I can do 
anything. Ugh. Well I know what free means. But MSFT has an actual brand, business model, smart group of people working there, 
and yet somehow this is what results.

-There's been a lot of talk about the ethics of self driving cars recently. Should they prioritize the driver's life? What if its a choice between a 
bus load of kids and a 75 year old driver? Before we tackle that actual quandry, lets start working on the lower hanging fruit.
How about the ethics of platforms? How much disclosure is required on how you are collecting, using, and 
reselling data? How much information are you allowed to collect? How radically can companies change the terms of use 
and features of something a consumer has already bought (they have a sunk cost in this platform and are more likely as such 
to accept worse behavior that they normally would)?
https://techcrunch.com/2017/12/08/apples-widened-ban-on-templated-apps-is-wiping-small-businesses-from-the-app-store/
Companies like WhatsApp and Instagram aren't selling for billions because of their radical genius designs or ideas. They're selling 
to acquire a group of consumers, who are developing a habitual inertia. "Every morning I wake up and check my SnapChat as I make breakfast." 
And then 
one day you start trying to monetize the shit out of them. Possibly without telling them. If it doesn't result in outrage, that just means you 
aren't going far enough. Even if you do inform consumers they're unlikely to read the details, especially if you smash it in a big legal 
jargon licence. They might see a summary post and comment on it with a few angry emoticons, but they probably stick with their habit.
Its a sad state of affairs for consumers. 

--This is how you piss consumers off. I realize this doesn't matter as you have a monopoly on desktop OS, but it should. 
I like the Surface. I would never buy it though, because fuck you. I'll give my money to someone else. Hololens looks 
reasonably cool. Again, fuck you. Now I have no illusions, Google, Apple, Facebook, and everyone else is trying to deeply entrench 
themselves so you can never escape the loving embrace of their platform. The thing is, I have realistic alternatives there. 
In a world with a government less concerned with appeasing corporations (just think, they might share some of the money 
we give them with us! Or maybe hire us!) this kind of shit would lead to consumer protections being enacted. I can't wait 
to see if Europe goes after this.

>Political
This is going to sound like some kind of commie leftists manifest, but its anything but. I believe capitalism is the most practical system devised
by man. However, I do not believe we have an appropriate understanding of the incentive structure and in economics incentizes are all important. 
What follows is not an attempt to assign moral judgements, just to observe the trends. We will start with simple concepts and try to build to logical 
conclusions.

An overview of the points that I am trying to establish:
1) Job creation ultimately results from consumer demand, not corporate decision making / allocations.
2) All corporations aim towards a final monopolistic state. Whether they can achieve it or not varies by sector, competency, regulatory oversight, 
and luck. But the desired direction is towards a monopoly. This is neither morally good or bad.
3) Corporations make for a very convenient representation of the broader economy. Politicians love this. "The Dow is over 22,000! Record profits are 
being generated. Things are great! I can count on your vote, right?"
4) Large, sustained profits represent a condition that is likely hostile long term to consumer interests. 

It's understandable that the prevailing notion in American politics is that companies bring jobs. After all, who do we apply to for employment 
(barring local/state/federal jobs)? 
This simple argument has warped our policy action into a constant negotiation on how best to keep them happy. If they're happy, they might hire us! Or 
give us raises! Trickle down economics am I right? 

I believe a more nuanced view is companies organize to respond to the real wants, needs, and desires of consumers. A company
addresses a need in the marketplace. Maybe they can do something slightly better or cheaper than an existing alternative. (I bred these cows 
to produce 25% more milk. I can therefor sell milk cheaper, which helps fulfills your need for food). Perhaps its an entirely new 
category. (I have this new thing called a video game. You don't know you want it, but trust me. It's going to fulfill your desire for entertainment
better than that board game). Why do they do this? To increase the funds the owners of the company have to fulfill their own wants. This is a 
perfectly reasonable motive. We might tack on to effect some change or vision on the world. Employees have similar motives, wanting to trade labor for 
their own desires. 

Let's dismiss the intangible passion aspect, the underlying impetus is to generate a profit by filling a market niche. 
Being smart and innovative is tough. Imagine being offered a job where you'd work your ass off every day and barely make ends meet OR 
barely work and make a fortune. That's every business' goal. Nothing could be more natural or apparent. 

How do you do reach economic nirvana? Company A could dramatically outpace its competitors, bringing something to market that's years beyond what the competitors have. 
That's the societally ideal way for someone to generate huge profits. It's also incredibly difficult to maintain a superior technology or manufacturing process.
Other companies will enter the space upon seeing the profits. Existing competitors will attempt to duplicate your work. If they are successful 
they will cut into  reduce the overall profits. Price will be closer to the cost of production representing a better value for consumers. If Company A can
maintain their lead in spite of the pressure we're all better off for it, as they're doing something no one else in the market can do. The product would not 
exist without them. I'll call this a desirable monopoly.

The other way is to lock in your customer. Either make sure you are the only provider (via mergers or buyouts of competitors) or the only palatable one. 
Imagine a customer with John Deere custom infrastructure, parts, tools, etc.  The cost of changing brands and buying a Ford tractor would be tough to swallow.
The amount you would spend on acquiring supporting materials (non revenue generating objects, in this case anything other than the tractor) could be a significant
amount of your total budget, meaning you get less crop production per dollar spent. Let's call this an undesirable monopoly.

Its important to note that these strategies can co-exist within a company or even product. A company may have business areas where it makes large profits based on
technological superiority and others where its locked in. Similiarly, a given product might also have both aspects. Take the tractor. Perhaps the GPS based automation 
and tracking is remarkable. Its a major selling point you can't get anywhere else and believe you me, the price reflects it. However, the engine is generic off the 
shelf motor. Customers could easily get the parts and do their own repairs, but doing so means tearing a seal, which voids the entire tractor's warranty. That 
increases the likehood of them bringing it in for repairs at a certified dealership, that uses certified parts (which cost 3X what the identical part would cost
if you bought it elsewhere).

Let's address the undesirable monopoly. They are making a large profit, but not off of any aspect that brings value to the consumer. Rather its a result of 
some market inefficieny they've created that keeps them as customers. As such, their purchase is not dependent on you being 
state of the art. Often this means they don't need to employ as many people. People are after all a cost 
and if you can minimize a cost you should. Plus, there's no one you're competing with, so you can 
cut down to a skeleton staff and coast. In the tractor example it's a mixed bag employment-wise. You'd lose jobs in the engine design and assembly departments, 
but gain them in repairs. In other cases, there's less balance (Citigroup).

If some upstart company comes along, just buy them out with the huge profits being thrown off of the business
while they're still small. You can even offer a big premium to their current value. The upstart will face considerable pressure to sell. The shareholders have
the decision of persuing the market against you (with greater earnings possible, but the possibility of failing) OR eliminating that execution risk to make a
quick profit. As an example: Imagine a dominant lawn mower company, BigLawnCo, who controls 80% of the $1 billion (revenue) market. A scrappy young company, 
SmartLawns has begun to pick up steam. They've got 8% of the market. Last year they had 2%, so they are growing rapidly. A hypothetical valuation 
for them might be 2XRevenue (or $160 million). 
You offer them $300 million. Now the SmartLawns people have to weigh the future growth they MAY achieve vs the chances that they don't perform. Maybe their lawn
mower design for next year has a flaw that results in a recall. Or a supplier of a crucial part goes out of business. Then they might grab only 4% of the market next 
year. In contrast, your offer gives them a valuation TODAY of what they would be worth if they nearly doubled their business next year. This would be excellent execution,
most businesses would kill to perform like this. SmartLawns is very likely to sell. You might say BigLawnCo overpaid. But what they actually did was remove 
a competitor from the landscape so they could continue to capitalize on their monopoly.   You could also temporarily cut prices to drive them out of business. 
>
The obvious issue is that the consumer's desires (a robust marketplace, with many competitive options) is the direct opposite of the corporate dream (no competition,
huge profits, minimal costs). 
>
>> Dilution of purpose (shareholders, consumers, etc. not focused and powerful like corporations, makes representing their issues difficult.)

And while yes, you represent the owners, you are really a fictious legal entity created to limit liability. You're overseen by a Board of Directors who 
monitor management. Typically management recommends BOD compensation and vice-versa (yes, really). Shareholder represent a diluted party. So long as you 
turn consistent, growing profits they tend to not concentrate enough to effect change. You can actually entirely ignore their wishes at times (see for example
non binding referendums on pay). If the shareholder's sue, the company picks up the bill to defend management/board decisions. Arguably the right thing, but look
at the incentives. Why not push the envelope. It either goes through, or you get represented in court for free. The companies (and hence management's)
stated goal is to maximize shareholder value within the limits of the law. If that doesn't sound like a recipe for disaster, what does? It's difficult 
to generalize across a huge universe of entities, but follow me along this train of thought. There is a stated goal to maximize profits. There is nothing
distinctly American about any of these entities. Certain executives or shareholders may want to have things like US employment/factories prioritized, but 
there will be a general trend toward the minimization of cost and maximizing of profit. Activist shareholders virtually ensure it. Now, you always want the 
appearance of being "American Made, American Proud!", it's valuable marketing. GM loves to be considered America's motor. But let's be real,
if they could save money by fucking us over, they can and will. I think most people intuitively have some understanding of this, but our dialog has been warped by how effective 
money can be in politics. I'm equally embarrassed when I learn how little it seems to take to bribe Congressman and Senators. A couple million
an election cycle can lead to legislation that greatly increases profits. Why wouldn't they do that? Financially it makes sense. Its a good investment.

So we have this dynamic where the consumer takes it in the shorts. We aren't a concentrated entity. We're diffuse. Its difficult to get equal time with 
lawmakers. By comparison, look at China. They do many things wrong, but one thing they recognize is the value of their consumers. Their demands of 
foreign corporations are remarkable. They have to partner with local firms. Local firms that are clearly attempting to steal their intellectual property. And you 
better hire X number of locals. Also, this is going to sound distinctly unAmerican, but would you mind filtering your search results? Ok, thanks. They 
realize they have something that companies want, consumers with desires/needs. They aren't afraid to play hardball. The companies suck it up, because 
its still money. If they believed they could bribe the Chinese government to ultimately make more money as a result, they absolutely will.

--How much of my hour was devoted to Micky Mouse being installed? And there are how many Windows consumers out there? 100 million? 
Let's be conservative and say the garbage is only 5 minutes of the hour install. So as a society we're going to kill 
5 million hours so MSFT can make... 40 million? 100 million? I can't imagine its worth much more to put bloatware on people's computers.
--How much to sell the information you're no doubt collecting on me? Can I get a price sheet on fucking over users?
--What do I get out of this fantastic update? More Siri datamining features? More telemetry I can't turn off? I haven't seen a single
feature I actually want. 

I want a fucking operating system from you. I was security updates. I'm buying an OS and 
access to the Windows API. I want NOTHING more. If you would like to 
suggest certain features ("MSFT likes to scout the very best games. Would you like to try our hand picked selection?" or "Siri can enable extremely
cool voice commands! How about installing her and giving it a spin :) ?" ). That's great. I might even try. But as it stands I just see it 
as keylogging you're forcing on me. I actively feel like my property is being violated. I'm sure it all falls within whatever overly ambitious,
legally unenforceable, nightmare of a licence you've doctored up, but let me spell out my expectations:
1) You don't have the right to make whatever changes you'd like to my machine. Within the realms I opt into, fine. But I need visibility into what's 
happening. 
2) When you push all your shit so hard my instinct is and always will be fuck you. It may be great. But my expectation (based on experience with Windows)
is its just going to be another product you use to abusively upsell me on other MSFT crap or suck more value out of my use. So to hell with that. 
Edge? No. OneDrive? Are you high? The MSFT app store? Yeah, I'd love to lock myself into ecosystem a little more.
<Borat NOT joke>
I know you won't, but consider what may happen. This is the same monopolistic shit that should have gotten you broken up 20 years ago. 
You have a very profitable OS. You have a lucrative Office suite. Accept that and continue to milk it. Compete fairly in the other arenas assholes. 

--I should be able to see EVERY piece of data that is sent back to you. I should be able to say yea or nay to it. The idea that I'm going 
to trust you with all aspects of my life. And moreover, trust you to be ethical, when you behave obnoxiously on the little stuff... get the fuck 
out.
