Rally Internet! You're under attack! A corrupt FCC commissioner is going to sell us all down the river for cash from the companies he's regulating!

I'm not here to tell you that's wrong, but rather to offer a more productive channel for that anger.

Its nearly impossible over the last month to have not been told through many sources to be outraged about an 
upcoming FCC roll back of net neutrality provisions. The awareness is incredibly diverse. I've had a ton of non-technical people 
ask me about it. 

Some background in case your homepage reddit.com/r/awww and your on a strict diet of
cute puppies pictures (not the worst idea with the level of divisiveness and toxicity currently online). Someone produces an article, videos a cat, tweets, etc. We'll call them a Content 
Producer. You decide you'd like to see a cat playing piano. As such you are the Consumer of the content. In order to get this Content there is a vast array of 
Internet content is brought into your homes via a vast network architecture. Internet Service Providers (ISPs) build out networks of cabling and information routing, both 
residential (the cabling leading into your home) and commercial (interconnects where everyone's traffic flows). 

Under existing rules ISPs are not allowed to discriminate against the content they provide. They must treat all communication the same. Hence neutrality. 
They can't speed up, slow down, or block certain sites or services. While this wasn't always enforced by law, its the way the Internet has traditionally worked for the 
last 30 years.

Come Dec 14th 


My natural reaction was disgust. While I'm sure this isn't illegal, it certainly unethical. Another case of a regulatory agency being run by a former lobbyist 
positioning himself for a cushy job after his "public service". 
There are a number of enraging aspects to the story. However, on reading some interviews with him he comes across as intelligent and well meaning enough. Maybe in 
this hyper partisan era we inhabit I was in the wrong and lashing out at someone with a differing philosophy. 

So in the spirit of openess, some questions for Pai:
0) How do we judge the success or failure of the new rules? I've heard access to broadband mentioned. Is there a longer term roadmap? Plans to revisit and ensure that
ISPs don't just collect rent?

1) What concrete data points would make you think the Internet is a marketplace with robust competition? 

2) What would be disasterous for the long term health of the internet? What behavior would you not tolerate and would cause a reversal of the 
newly proposed lax rules?

There's obviously great concern that by positioning 

3) This one seems rhetorical, but I swear its not. 
What do you see the FCC's role as? My understanding is the FCC is in place to represent the consumer. 
As a hypothecal: let's say there a large majority of the American public (70%) feel that neutrality rules should be in place. 
As the commissioner if you disagreed with the long term results of neutrality would you still be obligated to follow this public sentiment? 
Or should you act in our best interests?

4) You seem to be advocating self regulation and a wait and see model. While I'll agree in a perfect world this would be ideal, it seems to be an academic's
modeling pipe dream.
It has been clearly demonstrated that companies do not self regulated. Reasons include:
Individuals within the company have different timeframes and motivations that the broader corporate entity. An executive who can double sales over a 5 year period through exploitative 
practices stands to make large sums of money. The sales practices used may be unsustainable or illegal, but companies rarely have appropriate claw back procedures. They fire him to save
face, he goes off to golf, the company gets a slap on the wrist (blame is rarely distributed appropriately by the legal system), and the consumer holds the bag. 

Consumers lack appropriate substitute. They have no feedback mechanism. 


Reasons for hope:
1) The content portion of the Internet is no longer some rag tag group of small companies and bloggers. Google and others are larger than the telecos. Let's take a 
pessimistic view and say everything in the government is for sale and the FCC rules are a blatant handout to telecos who will abuse their newfound middleman positions.
If this does hurt Google, et al, they will buy a swing vote on the FCC or enough Congressmen to enact legislation. Basic economics would dictate it. 

Not the brightest view of our system, but it may alleviate this issue. 


2) Americans hate the telecos. And for good reason. They nickel and dime due to their natural monopoly. Its unlikely that they won't grossly abuse their new power. 